How to Remove Samsung Bloatware without Root

Samsung phones and Galaxy Tabs come with lots of preinstalled apps many of which are useless to the end-user. Such apps are called bloatware and because they are installed as system apps, the uninstall option for them remains unavailable. Below is a big list of Samsung bloatware that is safe to remove. Since there’s no bloat removal tool available out there, we’ll also see how we can disable and uninstall system apps without root using ADB commands.

It doesn’t matter whether you own a Galaxy A50, A80, S9, Note 10, S10, S20, Galaxy Tab, or any other Samsung device, all of them are stuffed with bloatware. If you own a rooted Samsung phone, you can try apps like System App Remover and Bloatware Remover to get rid of useless system apps without using a PC.

Table of Contents 

Why Debloat your Samsung Device?

Finding App Package Name

Samsung Bloatware List

Removing Samsung Bloatware via ADB

Restore Uninstalled System Apps

Disable Samsung Bloatware

 

Why Debloat your Samsung Device?

Well, there is more than one answer to that question.

    Bloat apps unnecessarily clutter the app drawer.
    Pre-installed apps occupy lots of space on your phone’s internal storage
    Bloatware consumes data and battery juice in the background.
    Bloat apps also devour system resources in the background and make your device slower.

My Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Plus and Galaxy S20 had 127 and 132 pre-installed apps out-of-the-box respectively. The majority of those apps are mere junk that deserves to be cleaned. By uninstalling such apps, you can have a cleaner app drawer, save data and space, and have a faster experience.

You can easily remove bloatware on your Samsung device but there’s a catch. Even if know the way to uninstall them, you must be aware of 2 things.

    The package name of the apps you want to uninstall.
    Is the bloatware safe to remove?

I’ll be addressing both these concerns below.

 

Finding App Package Name

To be able to remove bloatware on your Samsung device without root via ADB, you must have the package name of the app to be deleted. There are 3 ways to you can find the Android app package name.

    Using ADB command
    Launch the Command prompt or PowerShell window.
    Enable USB Debugging on your Samsung Galaxy phone or Tab.
    Connect your device to the computer.
    Execute the following ADB shell commands. The first for the list of all apps, and the second one for the list of all system apps.
    #1 Get the list of all apps
    adb shell pm list packages
    #2 Get the list of system apps only
    adb shell pm list packages -s
    #3 Get the list of all Samsung apps
    adb shell pm list packages | grep 'samsung'

('pm' in the above commands stands for "package manager"

    You’ll now have the list of package names of all Samsung apps and other Android apps installed on your device.

SamNoteUser_0-1594509216501.png

 

ADB shell pm list packages command

You can copy the list of apps from the command windows and copy it to a text file.

    Using an Android App

You can find some good apps in the Google Play Store that can help you with finding the app package names. App Inspector, Package Browser, Package Name Viewer 2.0, and Apps Inspector are some worthy options that you should try.

    Via Play Store URL

You can find out the APK package name for any app by opening the app page in the Play Store in a desktop browser as shown below.

SamNoteUser_1-1594509216503.png

 

 

Samsung Bloatware List

To make your job easier, I have prepared a list of safe to remove apps on your Samsung device. The pre-installed apps listed below are found on the Galaxy S9, S10, S20, and Note 10. Most of them are common Samsung apps found on all Galaxy phones and Tabs by the Korean giant.

Samsung Bixby

After disabling Samsung Bixby, you can easily remap the power-**bleep**-Bixby button on your Samsung using a button remapper app from the Play Store.

com.samsung.android.bixby.wakeup

com.samsung.android.app.spage | Bixby homepage launcher

com.samsung.android.app.routines | Bixby Routines

com.samsung.android.bixby.service | Bixby features

com.samsung.android.visionintelligence | Bixby Vision

com.samsung.android.bixby.agent | Bixby Voice

com.samsung.android.bixby.agent.dummy | Bixby debug app

com.samsung.android.bixbyvision.framework | Bixby Vision

ANT+ Service

The following apps are related to Bluetooth services and accessories like watches, fitness tracking, etc.

com.dsi.ant.sample.acquirechannels

com.dsi.ant.service.socket

com.dsi.ant.server

com.dsi.ant.plugins.antplus

General System

com.android.egg | Android Easter Egg

com.sec.android.easyonehand | One hand mode

com.sec.android.widgetapp.samsungapps | Homescreen widget

com.sec.android.app.launcher | OneUI Launcher

com.samsung.android.mateagent | Galaxy Friends

com.sec.android.easyMover.Agent | Samsung Smart Switch

com.samsung.android.app.watchmanagerstub | Galaxy Watch

com.sec.android.daemonapp | Samsung Weather

com.samsung.android.app.social | What's New

com.samsung.ecomm.global | Samsung Shop

com.sec.android.app.voicenote | Voice Recorder

com.samsung.android.oneconnect | Smart Things

com.samsung.android.voc | Samsung Members

com.sec.android.app.popupcalculator | Samsung Calculator

com.sec.android.splitsound

com.google.android.feedback

com.google.android.googlequicksearchbox

com.google.android.onetimeinitializer

com.google.android.partnersetup

com.mobeam.barcodeService

com.android.providers.downloads.ui

com.android.providers.partnerbookmarks

com.android.sharedstoragebackup

com.android.vpndialogs

com.android.wallpaper.livepicker

com.android.wallpapercropper

com.samsung.android.app.dressroom | Samsung Wallpapers

com.samsung.android.scloud

com.samsung.android.sdk.handwriting

com.samsung.android.sdk.professionalaudio.utility.jammonitor

com.samsung.android.universalswitch

com.samsung.android.visioncloudagent

com.samsung.android.visionintelligence

com.samsung.android.widgetapp.yahooedge.finance

com.samsung.android.widgetapp.yahooedge.sport

com.samsung.app.highlightplayer

com.samsung.hiddennetworksetting

com.samsung.safetyinformation

com.samsung.storyservice

com.samsung.android.service.aircommand | Air command

com.samsung.android.app.aodservice | Always on Display

com.sec.android.app.dexonpc | Samsung Dex

com.samsung.android.ardrawing | AR Doodle

com.samsung.android.svoiceime

Samsung Pay & Samsung Pass

com.samsung.android.samsungpassautofill | Samsung Auto fill

com.samsung.android.authfw | Samsung Authentication

com.samsung.android.samsungpass | Samsung Pass

com.samsung.android.spay | Samsung Pay

com.samsung.android.spayfw | Samsung Pay Framework

Recreational Apps

com.google.ar.core | Google AR core for camera

flipboard.boxer.app | Flipboard app

com.samsung.android.wellbeing | Digital wellbeing

com.samsung.android.da.daagent | Dual Messenger

com.samsung.android.service.livedrawing | Live Message

Samsung AR Emoji

com.samsung.android.aremoji | AR Emoji

com.sec.android.mimage.avatarstickers | Stickers for AR Emoji app

com.samsung.android.emojiupdater

Samsung Sticker Center

com.samsung.android.app.camera.sticker.stamp.preload

com.samsung.android.stickercenter

com.samsung.android.stickerplugin

com.samsung.android.app.camera.sticker.facearframe.preload

com.samsung.android.app.camera.sticker.facearexpression.preload

com.samsung.android.app.camera.sticker.facear.preload

Facebook

com.facebook.katana

com.facebook.system

com.facebook.appmanager

com.facebook.services

Samsung Car Mode

com.samsung.android.drivelink.stub

Printing Service Components

com.android.bips

com.google.android.printservice.recommendation

com.android.printspooler

Samsung Email

com.samsung.android.email.provider

com.wsomacp

Samsung Game Launcher & Settings

com.samsung.android.game.gamehome

com.enhance.gameservice

com.samsung.android.game.gametools

com.samsung.android.game.gos

com.samsung.android.gametuner.thin

Samsung Browser

com.sec.android.app.sbrowser | Samsung Internet

Samsung Gear VR

com.samsung.android.hmt.vrsvc

com.samsung.android.app.vrsetupwizardstub

com.samsung.android.hmt.vrshell

com.google.vr.vrcore

Samsung Kids Mode

com.samsung.android.kidsinstaller

com.samsung.android.app.camera.sticker.facearavatar.preload | Camera stickers

com.sec.android.app.kidshome | Kids Home launcher

Samsung LED Cover

com.samsung.android.app.ledbackcover

com.sec.android.cover.ledcover

Edge Display

com.cnn.mobile.android.phone.edgepanel

com.samsung.android.service.peoplestripe | Edge panel plugin for contacts

com.samsung.android.app.sbrowseredge | Edge panel plugin for Samsung Internet

com.samsung.android.app.appsedge | App panel plugin for Edge display

Samsung Dex

com.sec.android.desktopmode.uiservice

com.samsung.desktopsystemui

com.sec.android.app.desktoplauncher

 

 

Removing Samsung Bloatware via ADB

Android Debug Bridge or ADB is a powerful command-line tool that can perform several tasks. You can use a command to reboot your Samsung phone into the Download Mode.  Moreover, ADB also makes it easy to disable, block, uninstall, and re-install the system apps on Android devices. The method described below not just works on Samsung devices but on all Android devices running Android 5.0 Lollipop and higher.

Now that you have the list of Samsung bloatware, let’s see how you can remove them from your phone.

    Download the latest SDK Platform-tools and set it up on your Windows,  computer.
    Make sure you have installed the Samsung USB driver on your PC.
    In order that ADB commands can communicate with your computer, you need to enable USB debugging on your Samsung device.
    Please note that the screen of your device is not locked while you execute the ADB commands. Go to Settings > Display > Screen Timeout and increase the duration to 10 minutes.
    Connect your Samsung phone to the PC.
    Now open the platform-tools folder and launch a Power Shell or Command Prompt window. To do that, just type ‘cmd‘ in the folder address bar and press the Enter key.SamNoteUser_2-1594509216506.png

     
    Now, type the following ADB command and hit the Enter key. Keep an eye on your phone’s screen as you do it and Allow USB debugging when prompted.

adb devices

SamNoteUser_3-1594509216507.jpeg

 

    This should return the ID of your device in the form of an alphanumeric string to show that your phone is properly connected and is ready to interact with ADB via computer.SamNoteUser_4-1594509216508.png

     
    Now, execute the following command.

adb shell

    You can now execute  pm uninstall -k --user 0  (this will keep the app data and cache), or pm uninstall --user 0  (delete app data as well) followed by the package name of the system app to uninstall to remove it from your phone. You can view the full list of safe to remove Samsung apps along with the command extension on Google Drive. For example, if you want to remove Samsung Email from your device, use the following command.
    pm uninstall -k --user 0 com.samsung.android.email.provider
    pm uninstall --user 0 com.samsung.android.email.provider
    After the execution of each app uninstallation command, you’ll get a “Success” message to indicate that the app package has been removed.SamNoteUser_5-1594509216508.png

     

You can thus uninstall as many preinstalled apps on your Samsung Galaxy smartphone or tablet as you want to without root

 

Restore Uninstalled System Apps

If you notice the bloatware removal command we used above, it contains ‘user 0‘ parameter. It means that the apps you uninstalled using ADB shell pm uninstall -k --user 0, were only removed for the current user (user 0). If someone else uses your phone with a guest account, all the removed apps will still be available to him.

It simply means that if you need the uninstalled system app sometime later, you can easily re-install the removed app using another ADB shell command.

cmd package install-existing com.samsung.android.bixby.wakeup

Simply execute the above command as shown below to restore an app package that you uninstalled earlier.

SamNoteUser_6-1594509216509.png

 

 Disable Samsung Bloatware

There is one ADB shell command that lets you just disable an app package on your Samsung or Android. Below is an example command for disabling Bixby on Samsung devices.

adb shell pm disable-user --user 0 com.samsung.android.bixby.wakeup

That’s all about how we can remove bloatware on Samsung Galaxy devices and re-install the uninstalled apps without root using ADB shell commands. I’ll keep updating the list of safe to remove Samsung bloatware for the phones that will be launched in the future.
